Claim your rights

If you think your rights have not been respected, there are several forms of redress you can can use. However you should always send your complaint to the airline first. You can also consult your local European Consumer Centre for help and advice on problems related to air passenger rights.

Complain to the airline:
You should always send your complaint to the airline first using the complaint form provided by the airline.


Complain to national authorities:

If you don't receive a reply from the airline within 2 months or if you are not satisfied with the reply, you can lodge a complaint with the relevant national authority in the country where the incident took place, within a reasonable timeframe. The national authority should provide you with a non-binding legal opinion on how to proceed with your claim.
Use Alternative Dispute Resolution Entities (ADR) / Online Dispute Resolution (ODR)

You can also try to resolve your dispute using out-of-court procedures or an Alternative Dispute Resolution entity (ADR). If you bought your ticket online, you can submit your complaint via the Online Dispute Resolution (ODR) platform. ADR and ODR are only available to EU residents.


Going to court:

You may wish to resort to formal legal action and present a claim for compensation under EU rules using the European Small Claims procedure. For flights operated by an EU airline, you can submit your claim either at the place of arrival or departure. The same rule applies to connecting flights, which are part of a single reservation, but which may be operated by different air carriers. You may also bring the matter before the courts in the country where the airline is registered.

If the airline is not registered in an EU country, you can submit your case to the courts in the EU country where your flight arrived, departed or connected. The time limits for bringing an action against an airline in a national court are defined in accordance with national rules on the limitation of actions in each EU country.



Important information for people submitting a claim to a claims agency: Information notice on relevant EU consumer protection, marketing and data protection law applicable to claim agencies' activities in relation to Regulation 261/2004 on air passenger rights.
